packages/preview-url-secret/README.md, before:

# @sanity/preview-url-secret

[![npm stat](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@sanity/preview-url-secret.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@sanity/preview-url-secret)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@sanity/preview-url-secret.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity/preview-url-secret)
[![gzip size][gzip-badge]][bundlephobia]
[![size][size-badge]][bundlephobia]

```sh
npm install @sanity/preview-url-secret @sanity/client
```

This package is used together with [`@sanity/presentation`]:

```ts
// ./sanity.config.ts
import {defineConfig} from 'sanity'
import {presentationTool} from 'sanity/presentation'

export default defineConfig({
  // ... other options
  plugins: [
    // ... other plugins
    presentationTool({
      previewUrl: {
        // @TODO change to the URL of the application, or `location.origin` if it's an embedded Studio
        origin: 'http://localhost:3000',
        previewMode: {
          enable: '/api/draft',
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
})
```

## Next.js App Router

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following API handler:

```ts
// ./app/api/draft/route.ts

import {client} from '@/sanity/lib/client'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import {draftMode} from 'next/headers'
import {redirect} from 'next/navigation'

const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
  // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
  token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
})

export async function GET(req: Request) {
  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
  if (!isValid) {
    return new Response('Invalid secret', {status: 401})
  }

  draftMode().enable()

  redirect(redirectTo)
}
```

It's also handy to make a route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./app/api/disable-draft/route.ts

import {draftMode} from 'next/headers'
import {NextRequest, NextResponse} from 'next/server'

export function GET(request: NextRequest) {
  draftMode().disable()
  const url = new URL(request.nextUrl)
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/', url.origin))
}
```

## Next.js Pages Router

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following API handler:

```ts
// ./pages/api/draft.ts

import {client} from '@/sanity/lib/client'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import type {NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse} from 'next'

const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
  // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
  token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
})

export default async function handler(req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse<string | void>) {
  if (!req.url) {
    throw new Error('Missing url')
  }
  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
  if (!isValid) {
    return res.status(401).send('Invalid secret')
  }
  // Enable Draft Mode by setting the cookies
  res.setDraftMode({enable: true})
  res.writeHead(307, {Location: redirectTo})
  res.end()
}
```

It's also handy to make a route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./pages/api/disable-draft.ts

import type {NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse} from 'next'

export default function handler(_req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse<void>): void {
  // Exit the current user from "Draft Mode".
  res.setDraftMode({enable: false})

  // Redirect the user back to the index page.
  res.writeHead(307, {Location: '/'})
  res.end()
}
```

## Remix.js

Create a session cookie for draft mode, and put it's secret in an environment variable name `SANITY_SESSION_SECRET`:

```ts
// ./app/sessions.ts

import {createCookieSessionStorage} from '@remix-run/node'

export const DRAFT_SESSION_NAME = '__draft'

if (!process.env.SANITY_SESSION_SECRET) {
  throw new Error(`Missing SANITY_SESSION_SECRET in .env`)
}

const {getSession, commitSession, destroySession} = createCookieSessionStorage({
  cookie: {
    name: DRAFT_SESSION_NAME,
    secrets: [process.env.SANITY_SESSION_SECRET],
    sameSite: 'lax',
  },
})

export {commitSession, destroySession, getSession}
```

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following resource route:

```ts
// ./app/routes/api.draft.ts

import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@remix-run/node'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import {client} from '~/sanity/client'
import {commitSession, getSession} from '~/sessions'

export const loader = async ({request}: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  if (!process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN) {
    throw new Response('Draft mode missing token!', {status: 401})
  }

  const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
    // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
    token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
  })

  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, request.url)

  if (!isValid) {
    throw new Response('Invalid secret!', {status: 401})
  }

  const session = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))
  await session.set('projectId', client.config().projectId)

  return redirect(redirectTo, {
    headers: {
      'Set-Cookie': await commitSession(session),
    },
  })
}
```

It's also handy to make a resource route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./app/routes/api.disable-draft.ts

import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@remix-run/node'
import {destroySession, getSession} from '~/sessions'

export const loader = async ({request}: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  const session = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))

  return redirect('/', {
    headers: {
      'Set-Cookie': await destroySession(session),
    },
  })
}
```

Now we can create a utility function that helps us get the draft mode from the session cookie in loaders:

```ts
// ./app/sanity/get-draft-mode.server.ts

import {client} from '~/sanity/client'
import {getSession} from '~/sessions'

export async function getDraftMode(request: Request) {
  const draftSession = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))
  const draft = draftSession.get('projectId') === client.config().projectId

  if (draft && !process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN) {
    throw new Error(
      `Cannot activate draft mode without a 'SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN' token in your environment variables.`,
    )
  }

  return draft
}
```

## Checking the Studio origin

You can inspect the URL origin of the Studio that initiated the preview on the `studioOrigin` property of `validatePreviewUrl`:

```ts
const {isValid, redirectTo = '/', studioOrigin} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
if (studioOrigin === 'http://localhost:3333') {
  console.log('This preview was initiated from the local development Studio')
}
```

You don't have to check `isValid` before using it, as it'll be `undefined` if the preview URL secret failed validation. It's also `undefined` if the way the secret were created didn't provide an origin.

## Debugging generated secrets

You can view the generated url secrets that are in your dataset by adding the debug plugin to your `sanity.config.ts`:

```ts
import {debugSecrets} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret/sanity-plugin-debug-secrets'
import {defineConfig} from 'sanity'

export default defineConfig({
  // ... other options
  plugins: [
    // Makes the url secrets visible in the Sanity Studio like any other documents defined in your schema
    debugSecrets(),
  ],
})
```

[`@sanity/presentation`]: https://github.com/sanity-io/visual-editing/tree/main/packages/presentation#readme
[gzip-badge]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@sanity/preview-url-secret?label=gzip%20size&style=flat-square
[size-badge]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity/preview-url-secret?label=size&style=flat-square
[bundlephobia]: https://bundlephobia.com/package/@sanity/preview-url-secret

Commit message:

feat: lower permissions req to Collaborator

packages/preview-url-secret/README.md, after:

# @sanity/preview-url-secret

[![npm stat](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@sanity/preview-url-secret.svg?style=flat-square)](https://npm-stat.com/charts.html?package=@sanity/preview-url-secret)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@sanity/preview-url-secret.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sanity/preview-url-secret)
[![gzip size][gzip-badge]][bundlephobia]
[![size][size-badge]][bundlephobia]

```sh
npm install @sanity/preview-url-secret @sanity/client
```

This package is used together with [`@sanity/presentation`]:

```ts
// ./sanity.config.ts
import {defineConfig} from 'sanity'
import {presentationTool} from 'sanity/presentation'

export default defineConfig({
  // ... other options
  plugins: [
    // ... other plugins
    presentationTool({
      previewUrl: {
        // @TODO change to the URL of the application, or `location.origin` if it's an embedded Studio
        origin: 'http://localhost:3000',
        previewMode: {
          enable: '/api/draft',
        },
      },
    }),
  ],
})
```

# Permissions model

> [!NOTE]
> v1 used to require Editor or above to create the secret.
> v2 lowers the requirement to Collaborator.

In order to create an URL Preview Secret, the user needs to have the rights to create draft documents in the schema.
By default that means Contributor or above.
For Enterprise customers with custom roles, it's possible to grant Viewer roles access to create preview secrets.

## Granting access to Viewer roles and below

In your proiect access settings:

1. Create a new Content Resource.
2. Title it "Preview URL Secrets for Presentation Tool".
3. Set the filter to: `_type == "sanity.previewUrlSecret" && _id in path("drafts.**")`.
4. Click "Create content resource".
5. Create new role.
6. Title it "Viewer with Presentation Tool access".
7. Create the role.
8. Edit the "Content permissions".
9. For the "Preview URL Secrets for Presentation Tool" and set it to "+ Update and create". The "All documents", "Image assets" and "File assets" should be set to "Read".
10. Save changes.

To grant a user access to Presentation Tool you simply assign them the new "Viewer with Presentation Tool access" role, instead of "Viewer".

# Usage

## Next.js App Router

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following API handler:

```ts
// ./app/api/draft/route.ts

import {client} from '@/sanity/lib/client'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import {draftMode} from 'next/headers'
import {redirect} from 'next/navigation'

const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
  // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
  token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
})

export async function GET(req: Request) {
  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
  if (!isValid) {
    return new Response('Invalid secret', {status: 401})
  }

  draftMode().enable()

  redirect(redirectTo)
}
```

It's also handy to make a route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./app/api/disable-draft/route.ts

import {draftMode} from 'next/headers'
import {NextRequest, NextResponse} from 'next/server'

export function GET(request: NextRequest) {
  draftMode().disable()
  const url = new URL(request.nextUrl)
  return NextResponse.redirect(new URL('/', url.origin))
}
```

## Next.js Pages Router

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following API handler:

```ts
// ./pages/api/draft.ts

import {client} from '@/sanity/lib/client'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import type {NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse} from 'next'

const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
  // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
  token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
})

export default async function handler(req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse<string | void>) {
  if (!req.url) {
    throw new Error('Missing url')
  }
  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
  if (!isValid) {
    return res.status(401).send('Invalid secret')
  }
  // Enable Draft Mode by setting the cookies
  res.setDraftMode({enable: true})
  res.writeHead(307, {Location: redirectTo})
  res.end()
}
```

It's also handy to make a route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./pages/api/disable-draft.ts

import type {NextApiRequest, NextApiResponse} from 'next'

export default function handler(_req: NextApiRequest, res: NextApiResponse<void>): void {
  // Exit the current user from "Draft Mode".
  res.setDraftMode({enable: false})

  // Redirect the user back to the index page.
  res.writeHead(307, {Location: '/'})
  res.end()
}
```

## Remix.js

Create a session cookie for draft mode, and put it's secret in an environment variable name `SANITY_SESSION_SECRET`:

```ts
// ./app/sessions.ts

import {createCookieSessionStorage} from '@remix-run/node'

export const DRAFT_SESSION_NAME = '__draft'

if (!process.env.SANITY_SESSION_SECRET) {
  throw new Error(`Missing SANITY_SESSION_SECRET in .env`)
}

const {getSession, commitSession, destroySession} = createCookieSessionStorage({
  cookie: {
    name: DRAFT_SESSION_NAME,
    secrets: [process.env.SANITY_SESSION_SECRET],
    sameSite: 'lax',
  },
})

export {commitSession, destroySession, getSession}
```

Create an API token with viewer rights, and put it in an environment variable named `SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN`, then create the following resource route:

```ts
// ./app/routes/api.draft.ts

import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@remix-run/node'
import {validatePreviewUrl} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret'
import {client} from '~/sanity/client'
import {commitSession, getSession} from '~/sessions'

export const loader = async ({request}: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  if (!process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN) {
    throw new Response('Draft mode missing token!', {status: 401})
  }

  const clientWithToken = client.withConfig({
    // Required, otherwise the URL preview secret can't be validated
    token: process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN,
  })

  const {isValid, redirectTo = '/'} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, request.url)

  if (!isValid) {
    throw new Response('Invalid secret!', {status: 401})
  }

  const session = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))
  await session.set('projectId', client.config().projectId)

  return redirect(redirectTo, {
    headers: {
      'Set-Cookie': await commitSession(session),
    },
  })
}
```

It's also handy to make a resource route to disable draft mode, so you have an easy way of disabling it when leaving the Presentation Mode and return to your app:

```ts
// ./app/routes/api.disable-draft.ts

import {redirect, type LoaderFunctionArgs} from '@remix-run/node'
import {destroySession, getSession} from '~/sessions'

export const loader = async ({request}: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  const session = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))

  return redirect('/', {
    headers: {
      'Set-Cookie': await destroySession(session),
    },
  })
}
```

Now we can create a utility function that helps us get the draft mode from the session cookie in loaders:

```ts
// ./app/sanity/get-draft-mode.server.ts

import {client} from '~/sanity/client'
import {getSession} from '~/sessions'

export async function getDraftMode(request: Request) {
  const draftSession = await getSession(request.headers.get('Cookie'))
  const draft = draftSession.get('projectId') === client.config().projectId

  if (draft && !process.env.SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN) {
    throw new Error(
      `Cannot activate draft mode without a 'SANITY_API_READ_TOKEN' token in your environment variables.`,
    )
  }

  return draft
}
```

## Checking the Studio origin

You can inspect the URL origin of the Studio that initiated the preview on the `studioOrigin` property of `validatePreviewUrl`:

```ts
const {isValid, redirectTo = '/', studioOrigin} = await validatePreviewUrl(clientWithToken, req.url)
if (studioOrigin === 'http://localhost:3333') {
  console.log('This preview was initiated from the local development Studio')
}
```

You don't have to check `isValid` before using it, as it'll be `undefined` if the preview URL secret failed validation. It's also `undefined` if the way the secret were created didn't provide an origin.

## Debugging generated secrets

You can view the generated url secrets that are in your dataset by adding the debug plugin to your `sanity.config.ts`:

```ts
import {debugSecrets} from '@sanity/preview-url-secret/sanity-plugin-debug-secrets'
import {defineConfig} from 'sanity'

export default defineConfig({
  // ... other options
  plugins: [
    // Makes the url secrets visible in the Sanity Studio like any other documents defined in your schema
    debugSecrets(),
  ],
})
```

[`@sanity/presentation`]: https://github.com/sanity-io/visual-editing/tree/main/packages/presentation#readme
[gzip-badge]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/@sanity/preview-url-secret?label=gzip%20size&style=flat-square
[size-badge]: https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/min/@sanity/preview-url-secret?label=size&style=flat-square
[bundlephobia]: https://bundlephobia.com/package/@sanity/preview-url-secret
